---
page_title: "GitHub Provider - terraform-provider-github"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The GitHub provider provides a way to manage GitHub resources available via the REST API using Terraform.
---

# GitHub Provider

The GitHub provider provides a way to manage _GitHub_ resources available via the REST API using _Terraform_.

## Example Usage

```terraform
provider "github" {
  app_auth = {
    id               = 123456
    private_key_file = "path/to/private_key.pem"
  }
}
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Optional

- `app_auth` (Attributes) GitHub application authentication configuration; this is mutually exclusive with `token`. If `private_key` or `private_key_file` are not provided, the provider will attempt to use the `GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY` and then `GITHUB_APP_PRIVATE_KEY_FILE` environment variables. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--app_auth))
- `cache_requests` (Boolean) If `true`, the provider will cache requests to the GitHub API. This can help reduce the number of requests made to the API, but may result in stale data being returned. Defaults to `false`.
- `timeouts` (Attributes) (see [below for nested schema](#nestedatt--timeouts))
- `token` (String) A GitHub token to use for authentication; this is mutually exclusive with `app_auth`. If `app_auth` isn;t configured and this isn't set the provider will look for the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable.

<a id="nestedatt--app_auth"></a>
### Nested Schema for `app_auth`

Required:

- `id` (Number) The GitHub application ID.

Optional:

- `private_key` (String) The private key for the GitHub application; this is mutually exclusive with `private_key_file`.
- `private_key_file` (String) The file containing the private key for the GitHub application; this is mutually exclusive with `private_key`.


<a id="nestedatt--timeouts"></a>
### Nested Schema for `timeouts`

Optional:

- `create` (String) Timeout for resource creation; defaults to `10m`. This should be a string that can be [parsed as a duration] (https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as `30s` or `2h45m`. Valid time units are `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours).
- `delete` (String) Timeout for resource deletion; defaults to `10m`. This should be a string that can be [parsed as a duration] (https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as `30s` or `2h45m`. Valid time units are `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours).
- `read` (String) Timeout for resource or data source reads; defaults to `10m`. This should be a string that can be [parsed as a duration] (https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as `30s` or `2h45m`. Valid time units are `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours).
- `update` (String) Timeout for resource update; defaults to `10m`. This should be a string that can be [parsed as a duration] (https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration) consisting of numbers and unit suffixes, such as `30s` or `2h45m`. Valid time units are `s` (seconds), `m` (minutes), `h` (hours).
